# Abstract



When someone asks you to build a web app, what language do you first think of? (before rolling your eyes at being asked to develop another web app) There are your frameworks here, frameworks there, thinking about what's responsive or fits 17 different screen sizes. Or not. For non-core web developers, languages like Python provide familiar interfaces to dip your toes into "web apps" without having to be a full web developer. Data scientists or engineers who may know next to nothing about stacking divs, sizing containers properly, or understand UI really at all (partial apologies to those who do, I sorta know), are provided any opportunity to share their analysis to others in a friendly way. Obscure to web developers, the language R has become a go-to in the realm of data science due to a robust community that has spent a lot of time and effort to extend its capabilities from its humble statistics focus beginnings with all of the goodies real developers expect in modern languages. Central to that goal, Shiny was developed as a framework to get those with minimal web experience to take their analysis code to the web for others to interact with. I want to show you, that with a little bit of code, yet with the options to fully customize, you can build dashboards and tools with relative ease. To that goal, I will show you how we wrangled a couple of engineers to develop a tool to educate science classrooms about different energy sources in the United States and their impacts. From layouts to incorporating new spatial ways of doing things, this talk looks at the intersection of analysis, a bit of GIS for the web (using leafletjs) + soft user interaction, while focusing on reproducibility. 